gh-120057: Add os.reload_environ() function (#126268)
python/cpython: Doc/library/os.rst

   to the environment made after this time are not reflected in :data:`os.environ`,
   except for changes made by modifying :data:`os.environ` directly.

>    The :meth:`!os.environ.refresh` method updates :data:`os.environ` with

Reviewer: I think that _some_ reference to `reload_environ()` should be left in the `environ` description. Maybe add it to the previous paragraph.

Author: I added a "seealso" with a link to the function.

   :data:`os.environ`, and when one of the :meth:`pop` or :meth:`clear` methods is
   called.

   .. seealso::

>       The :func:`~os.reload_environ` function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      The :func:`os.reload_environ` function.
```

On this page, it seems that we usually add the `os` prefix for clarity, so I would also keep it here.

      Updated to support :pep:`584`'s merge (``|``) and update (``|=``) operators.

.. function:: reload_environ()

   Update :data:`os.environ` and :data:`os.environb` with changes to the

>    environment made by :func:`os.putenv`, by :func:`os.unsetenv`, or made

Reviewer: I think that it is better to say "the process environment".
os.putenv and os.unsetenv update the cache, so there is no need to reload after them. You should refer to the C functions.
Please add a note that this function is not thread safe. Calling it while the environment is modified in other thread has undefined behavior. Reading from os.environ or calling os.getenv during reloading can return empty result.

Reviewer 3: If the process environment is mentioned, perhaps it can be specifically mentioned that it is the current process environment (I think)

Edit
Or, it can be called the current program.

Author: `os.putenv()` and `os.unsetenv()` don't update `os.environ`: see `test_reload_environ()`.

      Updated to support :pep:`584`'s merge (``|``) and update (``|=``) operators.

.. function:: reload_environ()

>    Update :data:`os.environ` and :data:`os.environb` with changes to the
>    current process environment made by :func:`os.putenv`, by
>    :func:`os.unsetenv`, or made outside Python in the same process.
> 
>    This function is not thread safe. Calling it while the environment is
>    modified in other thread has undefined behavior. Reading from
>    :data:`os.environ` or calling :func:`os.getenv` during reloading can return
>    empty result.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Update :data:`os.environ` and :data:`os.environb` with changes to the
   current process environment made by :func:`os.putenv`, by
   :func:`os.unsetenv`, or made outside Python in the same process.

   This function is not thread-safe. Calling it while the environment is
   being modified in an other thread is an undefined behavior. Reading from
   :data:`os.environ` or :data:`os.environb`, or calling :func:`os.getenv`
   while reloading, may return an empty result.
```

I assume that reading from `os.environb` is also unsafe.

>    .. versionadded:: 3.14

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   .. versionadded:: next
```

>    Update :data:`os.environ` and :data:`os.environb` with changes to the
>    current process environment made by :func:`os.putenv`, by
>    :func:`os.unsetenv`, or made outside Python in the same process.
> 
>    This function is not thread-safe. Calling it while the environment is
>    being modified in an other thread is an undefined behavior. Reading from
>    :data:`os.environ` or :data:`os.environb`, or calling :func:`os.getenv`
>    while reloading, may return an empty result.

Reviewer 4: I tried to capture why this function exists in the first place, rather than just describing what the function does.

I think we should also add when we expect the function to be used (e.g. the tkinter example), but I am struggling to come up with a good wording "Generally, this function should only be needed when ...")

A
```suggestion
   The :data:`os.environ` and :data:`os.environb` mappings are a cache of 
   environment variables at the time that Python started.
   As such, changes to the current process environment are not reflected
   if made outside Python, or by :func:`os.putenv` or :func:`os.unsetenv`.
   Use :func:`!os.reload_environ` to update :data:`os.environ` and :data:`os.environb`
   with any such changes to the current process environment.

   .. warning::
      This function is not thread-safe. Calling it while the environment is
      being modified in an other thread is an undefined behavior. Reading from
      :data:`os.environ` or :data:`os.environb`, or calling :func:`os.getenv`
      while reloading, may return an empty result.
```

Reviewer 5: The fact `os.putenv` and `os.unsetenv` don't update the cache mappings feels like a flaw in the way those functions are defined. Fixing that is out of scope for this issue, though.

Aside from replacing "objects" with "mappings" when describing the caches, I like @AA-Turner's suggested wording.

Reviewer 5: If you want to include a specific example of when this can come up, I'd put it in parentheses immediately after mentioning making changes outside of Python:

> As such, changes to the current process environment are not reflected if made outside Python (for example, when Python is running as an embedded component in a larger application), or by :func:`os.putenv` or :func:`os.unsetenv`.

      Updated to support :pep:`584`'s merge (``|``) and update (``|=``) operators.

.. function:: reload_environ()

>    The :data:`os.environ` and :data:`os.environb` mappings are a cache of 
>    environment variables at the time that Python started.
>    As such, changes to the current process environment are not reflected
>    if made outside Python, or by :func:`os.putenv` or :func:`os.unsetenv`.
>    Use :func:`!os.reload_environ` to update :data:`os.environ` and :data:`os.environb`
>    with any such changes to the current process environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The :data:`os.environ` and :data:`os.environb` mappings are a cache of
   environment variables at the time that Python started.
   As such, changes to the current process environment are not reflected
   if made outside Python, or by :func:`os.putenv` or :func:`os.unsetenv`.
   Use :func:`!os.reload_environ` to update :data:`os.environ` and :data:`os.environb`
   with any such changes to the current process environment.
```

For the linter.
